Okay,
you can send us a CD ROM of the
recording after. That'd be fantastic.
All right. Should I should I broadcast?
Ready when I when you are.
I think we're live. I think we I think
I've pressed all the magic buttons.
Let's give people a couple minutes to
jump in.
Be interesting. We're both broadcasting
from England.
Hello, Lee Smith.
We're
casting from different parts of England
geog geographically, culturally.
I'm picking up on that. It's been a
fascinating trip so far.
You're you're you're in the very north
of England in Newcastle and I'm in the
very
southern Scotland.
Okay,
just quickly check my I might just
switch my audio from there to
We don't want
Is there any echoes? I don't hear an
echo.
So, ask our studio audience.
Okay.
Lee is in England.
Ledllo,
that that's a question for you.
Yeah, I know where Lee lives and I've
told him this before. You get to the
middle of nowhere and then you keep
going for about three hours.
Then you make a little pit stop and then
you might be quite close to Lee's house.
Nice.
We've got people all over the world. I
love it.
We got someone in Scotland, which is
where I'll be in two hours.
We've got Philadelphia and
Portugal.
Look at this. Wonderful.
You want to kick this off? You ready?
Sure. Yeah.
All right. Uh, welcome everyone.
Minimize this chat window. Sorry.
Uh, Matt's joining us from England. Uh,
he'll introduce himself in a second. I'm
TK Camille. I'm also in England, not my
home. This is uh about a week. Came to
London last Friday and spent the weekend
and then took the train up to Newcastle
and then we're taking the train up to
Edinburgh, spending three, four days in
Scotland, going up to the Scottish
Highlands and then over to Ireland
before we head back. So, both presenters
coming to you live from England. Welcome
to everyone from all over the world. Um,
we you if you want to go on to the next
slide, Matt,
have the pleasure of having Matt Frost
join us for this topic.
I think you're in for at the very
minimum an entertaining 60 minutes. So,
that'll be fun. Not that you're going to
learn anything, no promises there, but
you will be entertained. Uh, as they say
in Gladiator,
Matt, why are you the world's foremost
expert?
I love that
on benefits communication.
Well, as as we were saying before we
before we started this, I fell into
benefits communication in 2000.
um came out of advertising and marketing
and thought I'd do something kind of
cool and sexy in that world and I fell
into the world of actually it was
communicating pensions at that time and
pension changes large organizations.
It's not much sexier than that.
There is actually nothing that gets the
loins going.
You're at the top of the mountain. Um,
and this was back when CD ROMs were seen
as cutting edge and we were talking
about the advent of technology and the
pace of change, but when you actually
had to to burn information onto a disc
and send it around the world in the hope
that people would chuck it in their
laptop and go from there. Um but I say
all of that 25 years ago I actually fell
in love with the impact that this work
has on human life on futures on health
on wellness on uh generally the the
relationship between employer and
employee I just find it deeply
fascinating that and we'll talk about
this later organizations spend an
incredible amount of headsp space energy
money providing benefits
thinking about employees helping them,
supporting them. But communication is
that unlock and actually the more that
you can communicate, the more effective
that communication is, the more people
see that value, understand that value.
Um, so I've kind of over the last 25
years been very fortunate enough to work
with businesses with millions, millions
of employees, and businesses with tens
of employees, but the challenges are
consistent. How do you take something
that's inherently boring, inherently
complex,
and make it interesting enough, relevant
enough that people are going to lean in?
Um, so am I the foremost benefits
communicator in the world? I don't know.
But 20 25 years in, lots of war scars
and lots of lessons learned, which I'm
hoping to impart in the next hour or so.
I would say uh I've I've it certainly
puts me in the top. I don't know if
there's a list.
Well, as far as we're concerned, you're
number one.
Thank you. Um I love it. Shall I just
jump shall I jump in because I know we
we've got um a fair amount of things to
talk about, but I'm also really keen to
get um some interaction with with the
crowd as we go.
Yeah. Yeah. Let me just set the stage.
So, uh, if you are attending this live
or you registered and are watching this
later,
um, you'll have access to everything
you're seeing. So, don't worry about
taking notes. You're going to have
access to the recording. You'll have
access to the slides. Uh Matt has also
been so gracious as to select a winner
for a an audit that you will get even
more
of the world's foremost expert in
benefits communication, his time
one-on-one. So that's nice. Um but yeah,
let's go ahead and jump in. I'll give
you some background on me, Nerd. Uh,
some of you may have been on webinars
that I've been on before, so I don't
need to rehash any of that, but my
background is not comms per se. It is
technology and how can we use technology
to facilitate better employer employee
relationships and engagement. So, we'll
talk about that just briefly in terms of
the context of how could it help with
benefits communication. So
given that, if you do have questions,
feel free jump in. We'll be checking
that. We'll also save some time at the
end uh for questions, but you have
Matt's undivided attention. So, anything
you wanted to know about benefits
communication, but were afraid to ask,
this is the forum.
There you go. I love that. And I would
say I would go back even one more slide.
The cost of benefit communication that
nobody's talking about. You know, that
was a an incredibly deliberate
uh use of words and play on words. And
the as I jump to here,
this number has bounced around for the
last
15 20 years as I've been studying it,
the cost seems to increase year onear.
And this is the average. which is going
to be people above and below of course
but on average organizations are
spending close to $30,000 per employee
per year providing benefits. Okay. And
most employees don't understand or
understand a tiny percent of what they
get. They understand even less than
that. And would they be able to connect
the value of those things the provi the
the company is providing?
Highly unlikely. And I see this as
there's there's two ways of looking at
this. This cost is a necessary evil.
It's a necessary evil. We have to
provide these things. Uh we have to
provide them to be competitive. We have
to provide them to uh comply with
regulation and do all of those things.
It's just a cost of running business. Or
you can look at it as an investment in
our people. We're doing it because we
want to because we value our employees.
We want to because as every website
that's ever been built says our people
are our greatest asset. This is an
opportunity to prove that and
demonstrate that the cost that you're
putting in is actually uh for them and
they are able to use it and
go on qu quickly. So that's the US.
How does that look? Uh let's say you
have a company in England or European.
Is that drastically different than what
it is in the United States?
I I would say the US uh is higher. I
think it's significantly higher than
other com uh countries. You've obviously
got a heavy waiting on health care in
the US, which is vastly different to the
NHS uh and other countries that are
providing kind of state-based health.
But in the in the UK, organizations
would be spending £10,000 per person on
but still a big number
on attractive
perks, rewards, incentives, recognition,
all of these things coming together. Um,
and as I've I've kind of got the and I
think my my colleague Jill is on the on
the line today. This is her analogy, so
I'll try and do it justice. But the way
that she explains it is like, imagine
buying for every employee a $30,000 car,
but actually you forget to give them the
keys. So, it just sits in the garage.
They can never open it. They can use it.
They can never experience it. They know
it exists, but they don't have the keys
to be able to um to get in there and
really make the most of it. I just think
like in in what world in what other
world would all this money be spent and
we can't demonstrate the value it's got
the impact it has we just go it's fine
it is what it is on we go we'll take
we'll take the increases
well done Jill that's a great analogy
that that is a good analogy and and I
think what's worse and I'll talk about
this kind of owners manual uh focus but
in benefits land the se the the center
focus for communication is often this
incredibly dense
benefits guide that's 50 pages long
that's full of all the detail and it is
in many ways uh take the car analogy a
little bit further. It's the um it's the
car manual that sits in the glove box
that nobody ever reads until they need
to change a tire or change a light bulb
or whatever. But this is the thing we're
using to sell the value. No one ever
buys a car because of the user manual.
They buy it because of the advert,
because of the feel, the feeling they're
going to get. And communication is that
bit before you get to the owner's
manual.
I would say there's probably
um
we experience this as an employee, but I
think we experience this as a consumer.
I think about my credit cards
in the States, right? American Express,
they have all of these perks and I can't
keep it all straight. I don't even know
what I have. So, someone at American
Express is spending a ridiculous amount
of money on these benefits and
partnerships with Delta and
Y
all all the perks.
And I as a consumer have no idea it is
wasted.
Very similar.
Yeah. Exactly. and and uh
you know in our line of work we're doing
a lot of focus groups, listening
research and the consistent feeling that
comes up when we talk about different
benefits. People like I didn't realize
we did that. The amount of if there's a
benefits manager on the call, they they
they would have at some point had an
employee write to say I think it would
be really great if we offered XYZ
benefit whatever mobile phone insurance.
You're like, "Are you kidding me? We
already offer it." I was with a client
yesterday, 12,000 people in the UK, and
they offer um travel loans, so you can
get discounts on commuting in and out of
the office. Three people use it. 12,000
people, three people use it. And is it
because it it's not relevant to 12,000?
No.
It's because they just don't know it's
there. So, we offer all these things.
We're just not doing a very good job of
explaining it. Before we go on, before
we go on, let's uh ask a question. I
want to I'm I'm curious to know your
experience, your um your role today. Who
owns
reward and benefit communication within
your organization? And let me see if I
can open this poll. Here we go.
You should have seen a poll question pop
up. Some people are on multiple
monitors.
Hang on. I've la I've launched the wrong
poll. Here we go. Who Who owns
communication about rewards and benefits
in your company?
Let's give people a few seconds to
answer.
And Matt, you should be seeing poll
results come in.
Yeah.
Can you see them, too, or am I like
You're you're
the man behind the curtain.
I'm as anxious to see the results as
everyone else.
Drum, drum roll.
There you go. Right. I'll leave
uh I don't know if I click end poll,
maybe it will disappear. So, let me just
go go through go through Number one, HR
and reward teams, total rewards teams.
Number two, shared but not necessarily
coordinated. And then third, internal
communication teams
really. And then there's a couple of
honestly nobody really owns it which I
which I think is interesting because
zero people put benefit vendors and
providers but I'll uh illustrate maybe a
little bit later why that may not
necessarily be always be always be true.
Um but I would I would say on that let
me just see if I can
Does that line up with what you
expected? I would say often there's this
uh I would refer to it as this kind of
messy middle ground where HR and reward
teams yes they're mandated they have the
responsibility to communicate the
programs but often lack of skill set
experience bandwidth there's there's
also a a danger of um or risk of can't
see wood for trees because we're so
close to the programs that comes with
this for
inbuilt. Well, I understand all the
details, so I'll write all the details
down and assume that others come from
the same perspective. That's a that's a
challenge. Um, and honestly, the the
internal communications teams that we're
partnering with,
it's a priority in a big long list of
other things they have to communicate
internally. And guess what? If the
seauite the leadership team are saying
we're launching our new strategy, we're
revamping our values. We need to focus
on quarterly performance. Guess what?
That campaign about whatever mental
health benefits or that campaign about
launching a new savings vehicle that is
going to get deprioritized, dep
prioritized, depp prioritized. It also
creates a slightly kind of messy middle
piece and you've got internal
communicators pushed for time and
resource uh will take what they've been
given in terms of technical content,
push it out into the right channels so
they're doing the right things without
necessarily taking the time to do I
understand it? Do I actually understand
what the message here is? What we're
asking people to think about how do we
want them to feel? internalizing it and
thinking about it as a a big campaign or
a one-off targeted piece. So, it seems
to be this uh as I say, this kind of
messy middle. It's shared, often not
very well coordinated. Um, and I like
that someone honestly put nobody really
owns it.
I feel like that's probably more common
than people are willing to admit, but
yeah,
now we know. Okay. So, we know uh
basically how the pie chart looks.
Yeah.
Let's talk about
moving forward. Yeah. How do we how do
we fix this?
Yeah. And I would and I would say this
is this is very much a left to right
piece and our um our work and our
observation as we are um working with
different organizations all all over the
world is there is this linear path from
when we communicate we do it for a
compliance lens. There are things
happening in the UK and the U all over
the world that we legally have to tell
people about. Okay. So we start with we
are communicating because we have to.
That's like the very bare minimum. We
said what we had to boxes were t ticked.
Often compliance communication feels
like it was written by a lawyer, an act.
You said you're a tech nerd, by a
benefits nerd, by someone that just
that gets off on the details, loves it.
Okay. That lands with people and they
go, "I don't know how to feel about this
because it's all very heavy. feels like
we've just kind of churned information
out. So you got kind of there is a
compliance box that needs to be ticked.
There's a way in which you do it. I
think there are a few clients in the we
just do things because we have to bare
minimum. I would say most companies are
in the striving for clarity. We took
time to explain things in the way help
people understand what when and why it
matters. Yeah. So take the what do we
need to tell people and layer over the
what do we want to tell people and
what's the best way uh of articulating
it. Um, and I'll say that while most
organizations are in this kind of
clarity piece, clarity uh, area,
the question I would always ask is who's
writing the communication, who's
reviewing the communication, who's
approving the communication? Um, because
our mutual friend Steve Presenzo also
often talks about writing for the
approval process. We write in a way
that's just going to get everyone to nod
and go, "Yeah, send that thing out."
Knowing when it lands, everyone goes,
"What is this? I don't understand it."
So, part of our role as communicators is
to is to look at communication from the
audience's perspective and go, "Right,
okay. You may understand it because
you're a benefits person, but me in the
factory, me on the shop floor, me in the
office, me whatever, busy parent, am I
going to understand what this means?"
And the more testing, refinement,
involvement we can have with real
people, the better.
Let me ask you a question.
Why do you think we are in this state?
So when I think about marketing for
example, they can't just say, well maybe
they can, but they shouldn't just say
we put up some ads, right? Mhm. Mhm.
Of course, you need to measure,
optimize.
Yeah.
What's your ROI? Is it connecting with
our intended audience? What's the return
on our investment in this platform?
Right? We report on all of that.
How did we get to a state where
something so important
as employee benefits is reduced to
checking a box?
Yeah. Uh that is a jolly good question
and I would say it's probably down to
prioritization. Prioritization and time
like this and I don't want to trivialize
it. We could talk talk more about it but
doing this well takes time takes
investment takes head space. M
you know we're chasing the whatever it
is £10,000 or $30,000 of investment
where we've got to dedicate good time to
keep uh benefits on the radar in front
of people. You know what's that stat of
like someone needs to see something
seven times before it sinks in or
whatever. And you know there's lots of
things in the real world where people go
yeah unless it's interesting I'm not
going to give it any attention. But then
when it comes to benefit communication,
it's like, well, we'll just we'll cover
the details and if someone wants it,
they'll go and find it. As I say, I kind
of feel like that's table stakes. if an
organization from a values perspective
is saying um
you're our greatest asset
you know those two I think those two
things are kind of justosition
but the our greatest asset is and also
for most companies our single greatest
line item in the budget is people for
most companies at least in the US 70% of
the budget is people
marketing is a sliver of that but they
full circle. Is it working, refining,
whatever? And we're spending so much on
our people.
Yeah.
It has to be time and competing
priorities.
Yeah.
It's a big number.
Yeah. But I but I think it's again and
we'll talk about this towards the end of
how we how we actually measure the
impact of all of this work. But from a
uh I know in the US from a benefits
strategy perspective is like how do we
control like the big ticket items which
are obviously help health care spend. Um
in the UK some of the big ticket items
in the recent past have been on pensions
and retirement based saving vehicles. So
like how do we keep these costs under
control and we're managing the the top
bit not necessarily how people feel
about it. Are people using it? Are
people feeling good about it? Some of
those things aren't off aren't always uh
squared away. Let me just quickly walk
through the compliance is kind of bare
bare minimum table stake stuff. Clarity.
Are we actually spending the time to
explain in a way that people understand
the relevance piece? to see more people
starting to dabble in this area and
that's take the whole story messaging
and carve it up in a way that's relevant
to different groups. You know, we've
talked about personas and segmentation
and that sort of stuff. uh that would be
its own
webinar. But actually I I I quite like
this element of uh as opposed to
everything to everyone
in the same way, how do we start to uh
organize content in different ways to
different different people at different
times. So when it lands with me, it goes
okay, it knows that I'm a 40 something
year old, married, two kids with this
sort of thing because the data exists.
It knows that about me.
Sure. Yes.
So how can technology, how can data, how
can we be smart on uh showing up in
those important moments? And the
connection piece is the is is the bigger
bit for me which as I say ties into
organization values and employee value
proposition which touch on a bit later
but how do we connect benefits to the
bigger piece benefits reward HR
whole thing a come to work this is a
really important part how do we make
sure that uh that connect connection is
there so this is our start this is our
start point right this is a um have one
of the team just mock mock this up using
AI based on a whole load of benefit
guides that we've seen from clients over
the years, right? But this is the start
point in a consumer world where we're
all overwhelmed with content. The world
is racing at 1,000 miles a day. This is
the start point for most benefit
communications. dense guides, heavy
tables, all the detail, and we expect
people to sit there uh and read through
it. Um, and it's like zero zero to 100
miles an hour. There's no warm up.
There's no there's no candle, there's no
music. It's just straight in. Here it
is. Bang.
That's very aggressive.
Exactly. you know, and and we're we're
expecting people to sit there and read
through the content um because we've
checked all the boxes and we haven't
really helped. And I'll just um
way back when, you know, the world's
changed a little bit, but when we used
to talk to organizations about um
effectiveness and feedback, people like,
well, we sent out the communication and
we didn't hear we didn't hear anything,
so we've assumed all is good. We've
assumed everyone's read everything and
we've assumed like uh we
we we we got our message across. When
the reality is everyone received the
thing, everyone simultaneously deleted
it, ignored it, stored it, did something
with it, but they didn't read it. I
think now the world has moved on that
when people receive terrible
communications,
they don't just delete it, ignore it,
store it, they share it. And I think
this is a really big risk. This is a a
live post that I I saw um couple of
months back. It was a kind of
governmentbased
compliantridden
communication about pensions. Okay. So,
instead of just getting it and people
go, I don't know what this is. I'll
ignore it. They post it online and
people start chattering about it. I just
opened this up and my first thought was,
"What the f?" You know, that's how
people are typically reacting to what is
what is this? I don't understand what
this is. And this is meant to be
helpful information about finances,
future, health, whatever the subject may
be. And if it looks like it's been
crafted to tick boxes, no longer do
people just ignore it.
People will share it. And then that
really has a damning effect on uh trust.
And when you've got an important message
to communicate,
a change, a new benefit, something
interesting, and you've eroded that
trust because you've been sending people
crap for years, are they going to spend
time to read it?
Would I be accurate in saying
this could be a hidden cost of
communication that no one is talking
about?
Oh my gosh, you could be as bold as
saying that. You're you're absolutely
right. Um this is the this is the
reality in which we live. People share
funny stories. People share like, "Oh my
gosh, I can't believe this is so
terrible." But it comes from the
original. What are we trying to achieve
through this communication?
If we're just trying to tick a box,
guess what? People will know we've just
ticked the box. If we actually spend
time crafting in a way that people are
going to understand, use, engage with,
maybe feel something from,
happy days. Um,
this is I'll
live by this. This is a hill. I am
prepared to die and that no one wakes up
in the morning and thinks, "Do you know
what I'm going to do today? Do you know
what I'm going to do, TK? I'm going to
spend two and a half hours of my life
cover to cover reading that benefits
communication. I'm going to go online to
the benefits website. I'm going to dual
authenticate. I'm going to go through
eight different rings to find the site
and then I'm going to read it cover to
cover." No one No one does that.
No. Uh so from a technology perspective,
we've seen this coming for a while. So,
the reason Amazon is what it is wasn't
because they were the best online
bookstore.
It's because they figured out that the
number one most valued currency in the
world today is people's time.
It's not the certainly not the dollar,
uh, pound, euro, whatever. It is
people's time.
Yeah.
And we're also, uh, not in the
information age.
Mhm. People say that we're not. We are
in the attention age.
Yeah.
So people are receiving so much
information
that it just gets lost. The reason we
are attracted to technologies like
Amazon, Netflix, Hulu, Spotify
is all tailored to me when I want it
about me
just me.
That's the key. How that's how you break
through.
Sending one to many communication is
difficult. It's a necessary evil, but
there's also a way to make that uh
stickier and resonate and grab people's
attention because you are in a battle
for their attention.
Yeah, I love that. And that's that's the
t you're absolutely right. That's the
title for here. You know, we have to
move from compliance to connection.
Whether that's clarity, relevance, deep
connection, we have to constantly be
trying to to push away from just check
checking the box. And then to your point
there, we absolutely have to recognize
that there's a fight and then fight for
that attention.
And I put the little brackets there not
even benefits people because our our
experience would be
that there's a lot of communication
that's created
and the teams crafting it don't have the
time to read through it and understand
the details and pro process it and you
know with so it's like we send it out
and we assume people are going to that's
the kind of next slide we assume
people's going to stop what they're
doing because something that we deem
important has land on their inbox their
their doorstep whatever and they go
right few this is about benefits I'll
stop everything and I think this is a
core mindset shift for the world of
communication generally that just
because it's important to us just
because we HR reward benefits teams have
spent probably months negotiating
contracts and figure out plan details
and and and Just because we've launched
this new thing does not mean to say
people are going to greet it with the
same level of enthusiasm, excitement or
whatever. So we have to fight for their
headsp space. We have to fight for their
attention. We have to demonstrate that
actually this is worth uh
this is worth
me reading. This is worth me focusing
time on. You know, it's like we've
launched something. High fives all
around. And there's absolute absolute
crickets when no one does anything. They
go don't go to the website. They don't
do the thing. They don't scan a QR code.
It's like because we haven't ruffled
enough feathers. We haven't made it
interesting enough that people
understand they should give it some uh
some some attention. And I was um t
tangential points. I'll tell the story
quickly, but I was watching a video
between uh Ben Affleck and Matt Damon a
couple of days back, right? I don't know
whether you've seen their latest Netflix
film. What's it called?
Is that where their cops?
The RIP. I think I feel like they're all
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It was good. Yeah, I
saw it.
But but they did a video on that uh
talking about in the Netflix world to
your point that the currency is time and
attention. this hundred $200 million
movie. They now are making movies
knowing people are going to watch it,
uh, stop it, pause it, they're going to
be doing something else while they're
watching it, so they're distracted. Um,
they're going to rewind or as my
youngest boy says, fast backwards, which
is my favorite phrase. He says, I'm fast
backwards. Um they're make like
Hollywood are making movies knowing
people aren't going to give this thing
their full attention for a full two two
and a half hours.
You're on your phone, you're distracted.
But I feel like that that should be the
mindset for any communicator, let alone
benefits. Like if if that's what
Hollywood are competing with, then we
have to show up and fight equally hard
for people's attention knowing they're
going to be doom scrolling or they're
going to be what? Reading this on the
move, whatever. How do we make it
interesting enough? Um, and you touched
on some of these, so I won't go into
detail, but in uh when we're
communicating benefits specifically,
there are also some very unique
challenges we have to overcome. So, not
only are people kind of time and and
attention
uh poor, there is this relevancy fatigue
like I don't think this applies to me
right now, so I'll just park it.
There's the procrastination like I'll
just figure that out when I have to.
That's about retirement and I'm 25 so I
don't care about that. or that's about
health and benefits to do with when I'm
poorly and I'm fine so I won't worry
about that. But they won't necessarily
understand the details of if I get
involved here, if it's about long-term
saving, what's the benefit of that? If I
get involved here and it's about
preventive health, that stops me having
back surgeries or health problems
further down the line. Like we need to
make the we need to inject the urgency
and the relevance piece because
otherwise uh people will just park it
for another day. talked about attention,
so I won't pick on that one. The um the
skepticism piece I think is really
interesting because if you think about
um the the topics benefits touch on, I
talked about health, finances, future,
well-being,
all of those are topics that over the
last few decades have been hit pretty
hard from governments, institutions,
organizations where they've said one
thing
done a different thing, changed the
thing. So people have this precondition
of skepticism about actually are the
things you're saying really true? Do
should I believe you as an employer when
you say my health is really important or
my whatever the the thing may be? Um and
we have to call those things out. We
have to recognize their barriers, their
resistance uh that we have to overcome.
So
uh a few examples um
just in terms of
practical ways and I park the data
segmentation the idea of uh how do we
get into to targeting different things
to different groups because I think we
could have a separate session on that.
But here are the four things I would um
urge people on the call to to think
about when they're crafting benefits
communication next time. Make it
interesting. Okay, that is the biggest
point of entry. If it's not interesting,
we don't get through the door. If this
doesn't land with impact on someone's
inbox or um doorstep or whatever it is,
and they go, it's interesting, it's
intriguing, it's piqu my attention,
whatever. They don't open the envelope.
They don't know what's inside. They
don't get into the next steps. We have
to um make it interesting. And this
crazy chick here, uh, Nana, we created
her for a pensions communication
campaign for a big retailer. And she was
deliberately provocative. She was
deliberately glamorous, but she was also
incredibly uh relatable in some of the
stories she can tell, some of the edge
she can have.
And you just think about the traditional
white linen happy couple skipping down
the beach talking about financial
well-being. We've kind of taken this
character and blown her up to be this
kind of agony aunt fun grandma. She
calls it as it is character which has
just made the whole thing slightly more
interesting.
Fantastic. You don't see that normally.
I love it. Um,
the make it findable piece
is incredibly important. And I was
chatting to a an organization yesterday
about where benefit communication
content lives. It is in most
organizations all over the place. You'll
have some content on internet. You'll
have some contra uh content in PDFs.
You'll have some content all all over.
quite a lot of it people have to work
hard to go and find and that
frictionless experience as you've said
is incredibly important. So we have to
make it interesting to get through the
door but then make it instantly findable
when people um are looking for it. this
meaning this meaningful piece is the emo
emotive piece right it's the um sorry I
forgot sec that's a different point um
meaningful in like call out the moments
in which this is helpful and this is an
example of a of a campaign it's like
really call out those moments of like
actually if you're up at one in the
morning searching AI like we can help
you with that we're here for that rely
on us lean on us in that moment moment
where you are really struggling for
answers. We're here for that. So, it's
that kind of colloquialism. It's that
relatability piece. Um, and the make it
emotive. This is a an example from a
communication talking about a whole
range of benefits. And there's this lady
had cancer living right on my face and I
didn't know about it. Okay. And you use
these stories of people whose lives have
been changed because of the benefits
that were on offer. And yes, the plan's
always been there. It's been buried on
page god knows what on the on the on the
website on the guide. But actually if
you surface it in real stories that make
me make people feel something, make them
feel happy, sad, supported, excited, I
don't know, whatever the feeling is, um
they go, "Right, okay. Yeah, wow, maybe
I should use that free benefit or
whatever it is."
Matt, do you see um from a technology
perspective with your clients, do you
see
technology
assisting
with some of these issues? So much
information, make it easier to sift
through. Could there be a
uh a chat? Just tell me what you're
looking for and it surfaces that on
demand. Right.
On demand. And then
I think where we are headed as a
technologist where we are headed is
the proactive.
So because we have the people data.
Yep. Um, I could see a point in time
where
you would have to opt into this, of
course, but it would have your what is
going on with you physically
either through trackers, your doctor,
electro electronic medical records tied
into your benefits. So, if for example,
I had high blood pressure.
Yeah.
Immediately it comes back with, do you
know you can get a tracker for free? we
offer this gym membership is 50% off
whatever
right so it's when I need it because
it's meaningful to me then
do you see do you see companies starting
to ask in these realms
definitely uh a big focus on
uh on search a big focus on filters and
tags and relatable benefits you know
because you're searching for these sorts
of things because the data says these
sorts of things. Here are things that
might be interesting to you to connect
those dots because you've just looked at
I don't know some maternity based leave.
Also remember that there's these
maternity based parental benefits also
available to help people connect the
dots of the of these things. Um, and you
know, as you say, in the consumer world,
I've had the same pair of Nike golf
sneakers following me around on the
internet for the last three weeks. I
wouldn't look to them. It's like, gee,
until I buy these things, they're going
to forever
show up in my feed. But in the in the
current HR benefits, reward space,
unless I go digging, I've I've got to
make those connections.
And I think as you say that as soon as
you can reduce all of that friction,
it's like people know where to go, what
platform, single point of entry,
they can find, get out of my way and
find things that they're looking for
easily, search filters, tags, whatever.
Um, then they can engage with your chat,
your bots, your self-service, a human,
whatever, whatever the triage is. But
they
Exactly. What year are you living in?
Get out of here.
So, so old school. Um, it can actually
speak to someone. But, you know, how how
do we help? Um, but it's an interesting
point. If we uh improve the upfront
communication, we educate people enough
on the fundamentals
that the queries go down, the call
center hits go down because people
aren't asking the same questions which
is typically what's my password to this
portal or what plan am I in because they
don't get the fundamentals. If we hammer
those points and reduce the wave of work
on unnecessary
repeatable tasks, could we then reinvest
that time on actually
going out and meeting people, doing road
shows, doing what these sorts of
webinars, you know, as opposed to
spending time on the admin work.
All right, we have time 15 minutes.
Let's get practical. All right, let's
let's blast through this. I'm going to
keep I'm going to caner. Um so fight for
attention gets us in the door.
Interesting ways of of doing fighting
for attention and holding it. Um this
notion of make sure that as an employee
you're controlling the message and this
is you know deliberate here benefits
typically
350 days of the week of the year is
absolute silence tumbleeed moment.
nothing is said. Then all of a sudden,
bang,
annual enrollment. And it's like
everything everywhere, all at once. Go,
go, go. And people have gone from
silence to cacophony of noise and and
and are overwhelmed. So it's like from
invisible to overwhelmed. Neither of
those ends are helpful. But that spike
is what we see consistently all over the
world. there's an enrollment window. We
hammer people with communication in the
leadup to it. They make choices. They
choose benefits. And then when it comes
to actually helping people use their
benefits,
it's silence. So I think there's this
kind of notion of like how do we make
sure we are controlling
the story throughout the year? And this
is just an example from a uh strategy
we've developed which I wanted to share
so people can this is how we're thinking
about it. You've got this evergreen
layer. This is always on, always there.
People know where to go. Answers the
questions. Then you've got this constant
drum beat.
People need to see something seven times
for it to register. People don't know
what they've got. All of these kind of
constant how do we surface the stories?
How do we keep benefits on the radar
throughout the year? Then over the top
of that, you can do your nana campaigns.
You can do your high impact things
gorilla marketing style where actually
we can hit people in many different
ways. But it doesn't always just have to
be focused on enrollment. Could it be
focused in other areas that tie in with
um the general flow of
company communication, company events,
other things that are going on in the
world? So there's this kind of
controlling the message um in terms of
timing, frequency, regularity. There's
also and this is a U US- ccentric thing
here, but
nearly 50% of people covered on benefits
aren't employees at all. their spouses,
their dependents, their adult. Well, you
know, they're they're other people in
the household, that don't have access to
the internet, so can't find the the
content, that don't see the the flyer in
the break room, that don't see the
digital screen, that don't see any of
this, but yet typically they're the
people involved in making the decisions
on plans. And we're not talking to them
either in hardly ever, if ever. And it's
just that message of when we're thinking
about communication, don't always assume
it's just the employees we've got to
hit. How do we think about reaching the
home? The challenge is printing and
sending things to home addresses. While
it's I would say it's had a rise in the
last 5 years or so, is still seen as
like a high cost.
And are we going to get return if we
send things to homes? Um,
and if we don't do that, we've got to
capture other people's email addresses,
and that's hard. So, there's a risk
there, but 50% of the people in the
benefits plan aren't employees. Nearly
50% aren't employees at all, and we need
to think about them.
Um the other point I wanted to make on
controlling the message
um and it was interesting because no one
in the previous poll said that uh
vendors are responsible for
communication but typically what we
observe um when we start working with an
organization and we lay out all of the
communications that people receive
throughout the year
90% of it comes from the healthcare
providers.
So whether that's what whatever whatever
it may be, it's got their logo on it,
it's got their branding on it, talks
about their plan, and the company might
be referenced as an afterthought.
And that just makes me really sad
because the company's funding the
benefit, putting the benefit through,
doing all the things, but allowing the b
the the vendors to take all the credit
and also not controlling the narrative,
the message, the experience. And that is
in my world is trying to organize
communication a big challenge.
All right, we'll start EVP. I'm going to
I'm going to rattle through that
compliance to connection piece. So if if
if we any opportunity we can use to make
benefits feel part of the value that
employees get for coming to work. So a
lot of focus I know is spent on employee
value proposition. Um and candidly a lot
of it is promises and it's as put here
abstract ideas. intangible things of
like when you come to work it feels like
this and we're like this and this is all
the wonderful stuff that we do. Benefits
in my mind is it's the receipt. It's the
proof in the pudding. Okay, these are
the things that people can actually use
that demonstrate that value that they
can rely on when they need them. So,
they're real they're the tangible bit of
an EVP, but often they're kind of the
bit that's just kept in the shadows
because we'd much rather talk about um
what it feels like to work here and what
an incredible culture we've got and how
wonderful careers and talent are. All of
those things, don't get me wrong, all of
those things are incredibly important,
but benefits kind of give the EVP teeth,
but only if they know what they are and
they understand what's there. Um,
I bet you didn't ever think you'd see a
slide with the film 7, a shop of Toys R
Us, and Steve Jobs on.
You were correct, sir. Never thought
that. This this might be the only slide
that's ever existed, but the it was
first point work left to right. Um
you've seen the film Seven, that
infamous scene at the the end.
Yes.
What's in the box? Everyone knows what's
in the box and you never see what's in
the box. But it's kind of my way of
getting people to think about like EVP,
your unique box. You have to open it up.
You have to pull out all of these things
that are in the box. lay them out in a
way that we can make sense of is the is
the unique collection of these things in
our box
worth shouting about. What are the
elements of them that make us genuinely
unique and which of them are uh table
stakes? We have to entry point define
what's in our box. The second piece,
which is the Toys R Us analogy, you
know, their their strap line, which I
won't sing, was everything under one
roof, right? So, you instinctively knew,
and I know they had a bit of a decline
recently, but when I was growing up, you
instinctively know if you wanted a toy,
go to Toys R Us because it's all there.
But they never organized things by
manufacturer. They organize things by
product or by age or by they organize it
in ways that meet my needs. So I can go
there, I can navigate my way around. So
to find what's in the box and organize
it in a sensible way that people can um
make use of and then there's this calm,
confident, reassuring way of promoting
it. You don't always have to be loud and
and brash to get the message across, but
once you've got absolute clarity on what
your EVP is, be confident about
delivering it in a really confident uh
compelling way in exactly the same way
Suave, Mr. Jobs would have. Stands on
stage, holds his audience. This is our
value. Let's let's go. I'll skip through
this because I know you wanted to talk
about this.
Yeah. Just real quick, one of the issues
that we have heard over and over is I
don't have the tools to effectively
communicate. And so we launched in
January, just a few months ago, um we
offer many different versions of
internal communication software, but
this is now free. So for those teams
that have say budget's my issue,
but once you understand the delivery and
how you do that, how you target it, how
it looks, all of it, the time it takes,
we talked about time. If that was
simpler
and we could create more compelling
messaging, we're going to have a better
return on our investment. And so we
started offering our foundations plan
for free. There's no setup fee. There's
no credit card, no contract. You could
go sign up today and start using this
within your organization. Absolutely
free, tied to your people data. Um, so
it's there. We'll have a link after the
fact, but we have still a couple more
slides to get to. So,
there's that. Back to you.
I love that the the speed in which we
can get to people, the regularity in
which we can get to people, all of that,
I think, is is incredibly important. And
you know there are still uh
organizations out there struggling to
put basic design on emails, basic
measurement on emails. And again that
makes me sad
that don't be sad.
We'll fix it.
Hopeful makes me hopeful of a brighter
future. I know I know this is incredibly
overplayed sentiment, but what gets
measured gets done in benefit
communication is exact is exactly the
right um right way. I'm going to skip
past the second poll because I do want
to make sure we kind of wrap up on time,
but I was interested in knowing from the
audience uh how currently communication
is measured. So maybe if people want to
put some things in the chat that we can
address in the la last few minutes, that
would be interesting as opposed to uh as
opposed to running running the poll. Um,
but I I I I feel like we said right at
the start, TK, like sending stuff out on
the hope that it gets read and then not
being able to demonstrate our value is a
almost a false economy because then when
it comes round to uh budget setting,
prioritize, prioritization of effort,
it's like, well, we don't really know
what we're starting from. We don't know
whether we're spending all of this money
and people don't see the things or
people see the things but don't
understand the things or don't value
them. So we have to create this
benchmark. Um and there are many ways of
doing it and we've got many dashboards
and different um examples but the the
focus groups, surveys, pulses, lots of
different ways of capturing the same
data. This is our way of articulating
value. How visible is the communication?
How accessible is it? How understandable
is it? Are people using things? And
what's the experience like? We can ask
really
great framework
questions that get to powering this.
Then you can break it down by different
groups, different audiences, different
ages. You can say blimey, everyone is
clear on what it is, but people don't
understand it. So we focus there. Were
you gonna make fun of me because I used
the word blimey? I think
100% yes.
I could I could see you like what?
What are you a pirate?
Didn't for that one. Um
but but again the the other piece which
you know we we get involved in is the
AB testing things that have existed in
in consumer world for a million years
but don't often show up in internal
communication. What happens if we use
this subject header? What happens if we
use this type of framing? Does it make a
noticeable difference and how people
react to it? We should be that should
just be hardwired into how people how
people are thinking all of the time.
Back to you.
100%.
Thank you. So,
we are shocked when we get people that
come to us and they're doing
communication not just about benefits
but about everything and they have no
data. They do not understand is it
resonating people opening what works
what doesn't work and so this is all
again included it's free there is no
gotcha here this is please use this it
is free uh reporting by audience so you
could easily build an email for one
segment of your audience make a copy
change it right you can AB test
relatively easily if you wanted to do
that Um, and then report on what's
working, what's not working. Have a a
campaign. So, I want to see our 2026
benefits campaign versus 2025, all of
that content versus what you did the
prior years. Where do you need to work
and spend time? So, again, it's just
having the basic data to make better
decisions.
Love that free
outreach email, free data. Who doesn't
love that? Uh, final slide. 25 years
I've been doing this. So, 25 years in
the making, there are absolutely no
shortcuts to benefits education. There
are I've tried. There's no innovation.
There's no one thing. There's no magic
bullet. The unglamorous planning of what
we're saying, when we're saying it, how
we're saying it is as important as the
creative work. 100. 100%. Um, companies
already paying for benefits.
communication is the difference between
whether that's seen internally as an
investment or just a cost that we have
to pay. I genuinely believe that um if
vendors are louder than you, if vendors
are saying more than you, they're
getting the credit. They're controlling
the narrative. That is a want from my
from my perspective. Um box ticking
tells people exactly what you think of
them. When someone knows that
something's been quickly done or just to
tick a box, they can feel it. that
doesn't make them feel good. Uh, best
communication about benefits doesn't
feel like benefit communication at all.
You read it and then you go, "Wow, okay.
Yeah, I've learned something new. I
didn't know that before. I'm going to go
and check that out and know
instinctively where to go." Uh, and the
final point, if you can't measure it,
you can't defend it. You can't ask for
more budget. You can't dedicate resource
to it. You can't bring in um outside
help. So, we have to start proving our
value. Uh, and as you said brilliantly,
there are many ways we can do that.
Well said, my friends.
We could go for hours, couldn't we?
We could. Yeah, I think we are literally
just scratching the surface, but I want
to be respectful of people's time. So,
Matt, I I do want to sincerely thank
you. People can get a hold of you. How
can they if they have follow-ups? Uh,
yeah. Give them your website.
Yeah, websites. IC.partners.
Is that you frozen or me?
It's him. Okay. Right. T's frozen. I
didn't know whether it was me. Uh, if
anyone would like to get in touch, ic.
Partners is our web address. Matt.frost
Frostic.partners
is my email address. We can put all of
this um we can put all of this in the in
the followup. Uh happy to talk to anyone
and everyone about this stuff. This has
been uh in my bones for 25 years. It's
something I I care deeply about. Doing
doing well. Um so thank you for joining
us. Ter's disappeared from Newcastle. Uh
all the way from Newcastle. He's been
kicked out. Um so thank you for joining
us. We will uh follow up as planned.
I will uh I'll close the webinar now and
uh enjoy the rest of your audience
very much.